Mentor notes: bash/acronym - new file, no previous entry (#1860)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/bash/exercises/acronym/mentoring.md

### Reasonable Solutions

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {    
  # check to ensure an argument is supplied
  INPUT="${@}"
  if [[ -z "${INPUT}" ]]
  then
    echo "Please supply a string."
    exit 1
  else

    # translate the punctuations into whitespace 
    # Remove the apostrophe and anything but the alphabets
    OUTPUT=$(echo "${INPUT}" | tr -d '\'\' | tr -c '[:alpha:]' ' ')

    # Uppercase compatable with bash < 4.0
    printf "%c" ${OUTPUT} | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]'
  fi
}
main "$@"

#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {
  [[ -n $1 ]] || exit 1
  declare -ra WORDS=( ${1//[![:alpha:]]/ } )

  for word in "${WORDS[@]}"; do
    output+=${word:0:1}
  done

  # requires bash >= 4.0 to capitalize output
  printf "%s\n" ${output^^}
}
main "$@"

#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {
  IFS=' !"#$%&()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~';
  read -r -a array <<< "$*";
  set acronym;
  for element in "${array[@]}";
  do
      acronym+="${element:0:1}";
  done
  printf "%s\n" $acronym | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]';
  unset acronym;
  unset IFS;
}
main "$@";
```

### Common Suggestions

> * Loop is not needed for the solution printf "%c" can be used to print the first characters of each element of an array. (see solution no.1) 

Reviewer: Markdown backtick delimiters cn be used to show, i.e., `printf "%c"`, for when actual code is used in the suggestions..

* Loop will work with an array or a string seperated by spaces.  [looping constructs](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Looping-Constructs.html#Looping-Constructs) https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Looping-Constructs.html#Looping-Constructs

* An array to use a for loop can be created with read:

```bash
IFS=' !"#$%&()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~';
read -r -a array <<< "$*";
```

* A string to use a for loop separated with spaces can be created with parameter substitution [Parameter Substitution](https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/parameter-substitution.html)
1) words=${1//[!\'[:alpha:]]/ };
2) words="${1//[^\'a-zA-Z]/ }";

* Suggest using [Parameter Expansion - Substring Extraction](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Shell-Parameter-Expansion.html) to access the first character of each word string. https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Shell-Parameter-Expansion.html

### Talking Points

* List Constructs used instead of `if`/`else`

The `&&` and `||` in bash are short-circuit logical operators. They stop evaluating as soon as possible.

> `a && b` will only run b if a is true. `a || b` will only run b if a is false. `a || b || c` will stop as soon as anything is true. `a && b || c` will run a and ... b or c or both!! This is why a full blown if-else is often a good idea.

Reviewer: In this language, do we say "run" or "evaluate" or "invoke" or "execute" or something else. 

Also:

```suggestion
`a && b` will only run `b` if `a` is true. `a || b` will only run `b` if `a` is false. `a || b || c` will stop as soon as anything is true. `a && b || c` will run `a` and ... `b` or `c` or both!! This is why a full blown if-else is often a good idea.
```

### General Guidelines

* Unquoted variables

Always expand all expansions. Failing to quote an expansion, one string might be split into multiple words by the shell parser. With `a='1 = 2'`, `[ "$a" ]` is true while `[ $a ]` is false.

* No `main` function

```md
It encapsulates a chunk of logic in one function which is good practice for when
things get bigger.
```

* `[` is used

```md
In bash, prefer `[[`/`]]` over `[`/`]`. It's more powerful than `[`/`]` and less likely to act
in unexpected ways.
```

* No shebang

> * Remove boilerplate comments are left in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove boilerplate comments.
```

### General Guidelines

* Unquoted variables

Always expand all expansions. If you fail to quote an expansion, one string might be split into multiple words by the shell parser. With `a='1 = 2'`, `[ "$a" ]` is true while `[ $a ]` is false.

```md
On line <line number> you have an unquoted variable! That can lead to unexpected behavior.
Try this for instance: `$ bash ./two_fer.sh "a -o -n a"`
```

* No `main` function

```md
Generally, you should encapsulate the main body of your script in a `main`
function, like you may remember from the Hello World exercise.  It
encapsulates a chunk of logic in one function which is good practice for when
things get bigger.
```

* `[` is used

```md
In bash, prefer `[[`/`]]` over `[`/`]`. It's more powerful than `[`/`]` and less likely to act
in unexpected ways.
```

* No shebang

```md
There is no shebang on the top line. This means if you `chmod +x` your
script, you can't control what shell is used to run it! Also, it makes it
harder for another person to see that the script is written for Bash.
```

* Boilerplate comments are left in

```md

> It would be nice if you removed the boiler plate comments to make it easier
> to read your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would be nice if the boilerplate comments were removed to make it easier to read the code.
```

An example of neutralizing personal language and using the code as the subject instead.  (It helps to remove the sting of "you" and strictly review the code itself, rather than assigning that to the person that wrote it.)

Consider similar changes in wording throughout this document.

Author: I can make that change, should I also change it in hamming, those comments I grabbed from the latest mentor notes in that section.

Reviewer: Concentrate on this file first, I think.  But yeah, it would be good if we can "depersonalize" all suggested feedback over the track.

Reviewer 2: Yes please, and agreed with @kotp ; separate PR 🗡️

Author: Starting to look at this today, 

From the exerpt in question:

* Boilerplate comments are left in

```md
It would be nice if you removed the boiler plate comments to make it easier
to read your code.
```

When mentors address students are we supposed to keep things impersonal?

I think the person who originally wrote these points had the following intent:

1) bullet section is supposed to be depersonalized 
2) markdown section below bullet section is the personalized section that the mentor can copy and paste to the student in question.

Author: Updated the changes, which were mostly removing markdown sections.
Let me know what you think. 

https://github.com/exercism/website-copy/pull/1860/commits/24496d64090bef1cace706c325541d2a4f5b7f9e

### Reasonable Solutions

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {    
  # check to ensure an argument is supplied
  INPUT="${@}"
  if [[ -z "${INPUT}" ]]
  then
    echo "Please supply a string."
    exit 1
  else

    # translate the punctuations into whitespace 
    # Remove the apostrophe and anything but the alphabets
    OUTPUT=$(echo "${INPUT}" | tr -d '\'\' | tr -c '[:alpha:]' ' ')

    # Uppercase compatable with bash < 4.0
    printf "%c" ${OUTPUT} | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]'
  fi
}
main "$@"

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {
  [[ -n $1 ]] || exit 1
  declare -ra WORDS=( ${1//[![:alpha:]]/ } )

  for word in "${WORDS[@]}"; do
    output+=${word:0:1}
  done

  # requires bash >= 4.0 to capitalize output
  printf "%s\n" ${output^^}
}

main "$@"
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```

#!/usr/bin/env bash
main () {
  IFS=' !"#$%&()*+,-./:;<=>?@[\]^_`{|}~';
  read -r -a array <<< "$*";
  set acronym;
  for element in "${array[@]}";
  do
      acronym+="${element:0:1}";
  done
  printf "%s\n" $acronym | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]';
  unset acronym;
  unset IFS;
}

main "$@";
```

### Common Suggestions

* Loop is not needed for the solution printf "%c" can be used to print the first characters of each element of an array. (see solution no.1) 

* Loop will work with an array or a string seperated by spaces.  [looping constructs](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Looping-Constructs.html#Looping-Constructs) https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Looping-Constructs.html#Looping-Constructs

* An array to use a for loop can be created with read:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```bash
```
